At the very heart of any programming language are functions.
And in this section we're going to be covering a javascript functions Javascript functions are going
to allow you to execute blocks of code as needed within your application.
So what you can do with the function you can pass information to it.
You can make use of that information that's passed to the function and execute a block of code that's
contained within the function.
So they're kind of like little mini applications within your application that are assigned to do things.
So each function should have its own set of tasks and accomplish those tasks when called upon.
And there's a lot of lessons that we're going to be covering within this section in order to really
illustrate how functions can be used in real life examples.
So I've got a number of great exercises for you to get familiar with Javascript functions when you execute
a function it's called invoking and it can be used a number of times repeated as needed.
So the repetition of functions is a crucial part of why we use functions and also we can output calculations
and returned information from those functions.
So the reusability of functions is at the very heart of why functions exist.
We can just call upon those functions and execute that block of code when needed functions are really
like many many programs allowing you to selectively execute that code learn about functions and how
they can be used.
Also learn about local and global scope in variables.
So this is a really important concept in javascript and I'm going to be showing you some great examples
of how this works and why you need to be cognizant of the fact of where you're declaring your variables
and how it's relative.
If you're using a variable and you're declaring it within a function so it's going to actually make
it local.
And if it's outside of the function then it's global and accessing these values in the variables is
going to be dependent on where the variable of day gets declared.
We're also going to be introducing you to some more exercises to show you some real world application
of functions in Javascript.
So we're going to create a random name generator using functions in order to return back a randomly
generated name.
We're also going to be building out a calculator that's going to make use of functions in order to create
its mathematical operations.
So we're going to be able to add divide subtract and multiply by clicking and interacting with content
presented within our Web page.
Also learn how to pass arguments and parameters into functions.
So this is really important because it allows you to send data into a function.
So not all functions have to have that same data and depending on the data that you're sending in you
could be returning different results.
And this is going to be illustrated within the calculator because we're going to see how dynamic functions
can really make your applications.
Also we're going to be building out a code cracking game we're going to have to guess the random code
and see how many times it takes you to guess this random code.
It's going to return back either that the number is higher or lower and depending on the return back
result you can update your guess and try to guess the number.
So is the number three different numbers 0 to 9 and it's going to tell you if it's higher or lower depending
on what your guesses.
And you can take this application you can even build it further.
All of the source code is included within this course as well.
So functions also don't need to have a name applied to them.
They can also be used the same way the variables can be used.
So we can declare a variable that has a function in it and then that variable can also change.
So there's a lot of dynamic capabilities that we can apply to functions.
Functions can also invoke themselves so they can be recursive self invoking functions that can also
loop through content and similar to loops.
They can apply the same code multiple times until a condition becomes true.
We're also going to be building out a word guessing game using recursive functions.
We're going to improve upon that game by adding in shuffling using an array where we can shuffle that
array and return back different items.
So we're be taking what we learned from the earlier sections and applying it within the exercises of
this section also function scope having to review and find out what is global and what is local.
So where you're declaring your variables is going to make your variables either global or local.
So we're going to be discussing what that is and how that works in javascript.
Also how to extend your arrays by removing duplicates.
So we're going to be building out a useful code snippet from scratch as another exercise in order to
illustrate what functions can be used for.
And there's a lot of uses for functions within programming.
Another thing that we're going to be showing you in this section is how to invoke functions within functions
so we can add functions within functions and we're going to be building out a shopping list that's going
to allow us to take user input and add items into our current list to be displayed within our each page.
So another exercise from scratch in order to illustrate how functions work.
Also callbacks within a function and how we can pass even more information.
And another function as a parameter within a function to get that executed within that function.
Also showing you how we can improve upon that javascript calculator that we built earlier in the section
and we're going to improve upon that build by making the code more efficient.
And that's one of the things about becoming a programmer is that we take code and we try to build it
as efficiently as possible using our code and programming knowledge.
And we're also going to be building out an additional exercise within the section where we're going
to have a deck of cards and then I'm going to show you how to deal out that deck of cards to any number
of players so dynamically selecting the number of players that you want to deal out the cards to.
And we're going to deal those cards.
And all of this is going to be accomplished using javascript and mainly functions within the source
code.
And remember the best way to learn is to push yourself.
And this section covers a lot of exercises so you can really become comfortable with using functions
and learn and see the power of functions within javascript.